README.md, before:

# week-7-LMAO

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/FAC10/week-7-LMAO.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/FAC10/week-7-LMAO)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/FAC10/week-7-LMAO/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/FAC10/week-7-LMAO)

# Founders and Coders, LMAO Jokes

Live site: [Herokuapp.com/](http://lmao-jokes.herokuapp.com/)

Scroll to the bottom of the README for installation instructions, if you would like to run our project locally!

### User Story

As a member of Founders & Coders, I would like to securely access a site to share my funny jokes.

Thus, I should be able to:
* add my blog to a database where it will stored
* be able to log in if I have my username and password in the database
* see all jokes on the site
* be automatically logged in via a cookie once I've logged in once

### Requirements

- [ ] Ability to log in
- [ ] Ability to log out
- [ ] Account authentication against Heroku database of users with passwords
- [ ] Session cookie to be dropped on the user once they've succesfully logged in

### Stretch goals:

- [ ] Ability for new users to register for an account
- [ ] Password encryption
- [ ] Script injection prevention

## Architecture & Planning

 - See [here](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/15314681/24713610/1aadf580-1a1e-11e7-8f7e-4ce3e71239b8.png) for our architecture diagram

## Schema diagrams

Here are the schema diagrams for the database:

### Blogs: 1 to 1
Column | Type | Modifiers
--- | --- | ---
id | integer | not null default
body | character varying (600) | not null
author_id | interger | not null

### Authors: 1 to Many

Column | Type | Modifiers
--- | --- | ---
id | integer | not null default
username | character varying(100) | not null
password | character varying(100) | not null

## Installation instructions

 - Clone this repo and cd into it

  - `git clone https://github.com/FAC10/week-7-LMAO`

 - Run `npm install` to install all dependencies

#### Database (To run the database locally)

 - Create a `config.env` file in the root of the project

 - Add the `DATABASE_URL` variable: DATABASE_URL = postgres://{usernameHereWithoutCurlys}@localhost:5432/lmao_jokes

#### Run locally

 - Run `npm run startDev` to start the server using Nodemon (which will automatically restart Node when changes are detected in your files). 

 - Navigate to http://localhost:4000/ in your browser

#### Tests

 - Run `npm run test` to run the tests *(this will take around 30 secs to complete)*

 - Run `npm run coverage` to check coverage *(this will take around 30 secs to complete)*

Commit message:

Include information about creating the database and tables locally
FAC10 were not familiar with how to do this. Very useful way of saving time and not having to test external database servers which will be slower and could cost money!

README.md, after:

# week-7-LMAO

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/FAC10/week-7-LMAO.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/FAC10/week-7-LMAO)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/FAC10/week-7-LMAO/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/FAC10/week-7-LMAO)

# Founders and Coders, LMAO Jokes

Live site: [Herokuapp.com/](http://lmao-jokes.herokuapp.com/)

Scroll to the bottom of the README for installation instructions, if you would like to run our project locally!

### User Story

As a member of Founders & Coders, I would like to securely access a site to share my funny jokes.

Thus, I should be able to:
* add my blog to a database where it will stored
* be able to log in if I have my username and password in the database
* see all jokes on the site
* be automatically logged in via a cookie once I've logged in once

### Requirements

- [ ] Ability to log in
- [ ] Ability to log out
- [ ] Account authentication against Heroku database of users with passwords
- [ ] Session cookie to be dropped on the user once they've succesfully logged in

### Stretch goals:

- [ ] Ability for new users to register for an account
- [ ] Password encryption
- [ ] Script injection prevention

## Architecture & Planning

 - See [here](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/15314681/24713610/1aadf580-1a1e-11e7-8f7e-4ce3e71239b8.png) for our architecture diagram

## Schema diagrams

Here are the schema diagrams for the database:

### Blogs: 1 to 1
Column | Type | Modifiers
--- | --- | ---
id | integer | not null default
body | character varying (600) | not null
author_id | interger | not null

### Authors: 1 to Many

Column | Type | Modifiers
--- | --- | ---
id | integer | not null default
username | character varying(100) | not null
password | character varying(100) | not null

## Installation instructions

 - Clone this repo and cd into it

  - `git clone https://github.com/FAC10/week-7-LMAO`

 - Run `npm install` to install all dependencies

#### Database (To run the database locally)

##### Create local database
 
 - Ensure PSQL is running.  You will need to find PSQL in applications folder
 
 - Use your terminal and 'cd' into the project that contains the database build script 
 
 - Open a new tab in your terminal (CMD+T) then run PSQL by typing 'psql;'
 
 - To create a database, type: 'CREATE DATABASE {databaseNameWithoutCurlys};'
 
 - Go into this database by typing: '\c {databaseNameWithoutCurlys};'
 
 - Run the build script to create your tables: '\i ./database/db_buildscript.sql;' (your route to the script may be different) 
 
 - Test that your tables are there with '\l' to list all tables in this database
 
##### Create config.env file to access the database you just created
 
 - Create a `config.env` file in the root of the project

 - Add the `DATABASE_URL` variable: DATABASE_URL = postgres://{usernameHereWithoutCurlys}@localhost:5432/{databaseNameWithoutCurlys}

#### Run locally

 - Run `npm run startDev` to start the server using Nodemon (which will automatically restart Node when changes are detected in your files). 

 - Navigate to http://localhost:4000/ in your browser

#### Tests

 - Run `npm run test` to run the tests *(this will take around 30 secs to complete)*

 - Run `npm run coverage` to check coverage *(this will take around 30 secs to complete)*
